Hi again.
I bet you're really excited
to start joining some tables.
And I'm excited for you too.
I think you're really going to
enjoy it and it's going to be fun.
But I did want to tell you
something before you keep going.
I wanted to let you know that some
of the examples I just showed you in
the past two videos and
some of the example you're going to use in
the rest of this course are not standard.
You're not going to see them
nescule textbook for example.
And the thing that's
not standard about them
is that I showed you examples that have
null values and duplicate rows and
columns that are supposed to be
used to link tables together.
In theory that should be impossible but
certainly violates the concepts
of set theory for example.
Which says that there shouldn't
be any duplicate rows and
if you declare a column to be a primary
key in a database it usually prevents you
from having any duplicate rows and it
prevents you from having any null values.
So why did I use those examples?
I used those examples because that's
what can happen in real life.
Sometimes companies need to collect
data faster than having the perfect
database will allow.
Sometimes it's more important
to have some imperfect data
than to have no perfect data.
This happens a lot in
startups in particular.
Sometimes they don't want to declare
a column to be a primary key
because they can't risk not
collecting any data at all.
It's too early in the company, and they
need to make sure they have something.
When this happens,
usually they fix any problems and
there's so little bad data that there's no
incentive to fix the database immediately.
They have other things to worry about.
I wanted to make sure you knew how
to handle these types of situations.
We're going to see it in our
dognition data set, for example.
It looks like at the very beginning
they might have had some issues,
when they were testing and so
some null values and some primary, or
some duplicate rows snuck in because they
didn't declare a column as a primary key.
This is a very small part
of the database and is so
it usually doesn't affect your analysis.
Where it will affect analysis is in these
edge cases when you're doing these outer
joins that end up being impacted
by these duplicate rows and
by these null values because they
have multiplicative effects.
As a data analyst it is not your
job to make a perfect database.
In fact you're usually not making
a database in the first place.
What it is your job to do is to create
value out of whatever data a company has
stored in any type of database.
I wanted to make sure you could do that.
That's why I didn't clean up
the dubmission data set to make it look
like a textbook.
I didn't take out the null values and
I didn't take out the duplicate rows.
You might want to do that if you're an
analyst in that company and you had time.
But I wanted to make sure you
knew what to do about it.
And when by learning how,
what to do with these edge cases,
I do believe that it will help you
really understand how joints work.
Which will make it much easier for
you to use the standard
scenarios where data look pristine and
there are no problems.
So I hope you will enjoy this
opportunity to use real data
rather than textbook data.
With that, go become join masters.